# GraphQL Schemas Folder

This folder contains the GraphQL schema for the application.

You can define multiple schemas in this folder, and they will be combined into a single schema for the application. ** All files with a `.graphql` extension will be combined into a single schema. **

The schemas are written in the GraphQL Schema Definition Language (SDL) and are used to define the types, queries, and mutations that the application supports.

The schema will be interpreted by the [Neo4j GraphQL Library](https://neo4j.com/product/graphql-library/) to generate the resolvers and types for the application. Therefore all features of the Neo4j GraphQL Library are supported in the schema. This especially includes the [**Neo4j Data Types**](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql/current/type-definitions/types/) and various important [**Directives**](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql/current/type-definitions/directives/).

It is highly recommended to consult the [Neo4j GraphQL Library documentation](https://neo4j.com/docs/graphql/current/) for more information.

## Custom Resolvers

In addition to the schema, you can also define your own custom resolvers by implementing the `getResolvers()` callback function in the `module.js` file in the parent folder. These resolvers can be used to define custom logic for fields in the schema. The resolvers are written in JavaScript and are used to define the logic for fields in the schema. 

You can also overwrite the default resolvers generated by the Neo4j GraphQL Library by following library's naming conventions when defining the resolvers: Use the  pluralized type for , suffix `Aggregate` for the aggregation resolver or prefix `update...`, `delete...` or `create...` for mutations. Then camelCase the whole name. Example for a `TargetUser` type:

```javascript
// module.js

export const getResolvers = () => ({
    Query: {
        targetUsers: async () => {},         // Your custom implementation for the `targetUsers` query
        targetUsersAggregate: async () => {} // Your custom implementation for the `targetUsersAggregate` query
    },
    Mutation: {
        updateTargetUsers: async () => {},  // Your custom PUT implementation
        deleteTargetUsers: async () => {},  // Your custom DELETE implementation
        createTargetUsers: async () => {},  // Your custom POST implementation
    }
})
```

See the README file in the parent folder for more information on how to define custom resolvers.
